# Smart-Home Alert System

Based on the work and the *Smart-Home Alert System* proposed in [1], the case study for this investigation is described below.


## Description

A residential smart-home system monitors and alerts house residents about fires and high carbon monoxide levels. The system works by continuously reading data from a fire detection node  and a carbon monoxide node, detecting anomalous measures and warning interested parties of possibly dangerous situations.

The carbon monoxide node is composed of a carbon monoxide sensor that monitors the level of particles produced in the environment by an inadequate fire combustion, for example, in an oven or a stove.  The carbon monoxide node continuously monitors gas levels and sends its readings to a web service. The service persist the data in a database and it is analyzed to identify abnormal parameters, like carbon monoxide exceeding a threshold, or inconsistent readings over a defined interval of time.  If a high level of carbon monoxide is detected, the corresponding web service alerts inhabitants about the abnormal situation. As part of this process, the service requests an appointment with the gas service provider, offering possible dates for the appointment to inhabitants, before it is sent to the gas provider.

The fire alarm node is composed of a temperature sensor and a flame sensor. The main purpose of this node is to monitor the room temperature and detect the presence of flames. This node works in a similar manner to the carbon monoxide node. The temperature and flame sensors monitor their associated physical variables. As in the previous case, a detection of fire sends an alert to the corresponding authorities through a fire alarm web service. In addition to this notification, the fire alarm service also enunciates the event locally with a visual, or sound alarm, depending on the location and activities of the residents.


## Software Arquitecture

From the software specific perspective, the system is divided into 3 layers described as follows. At the very top, the *physical* layer houses all detection hardware. This layer abstracts all sensor data and requests services from the *middleware* layer to store data or deliver alarm signals. The *middleware* layer takes care of receiving data from devices in the *physical* layer and properly routing any requests to the services in the *service* layer. As susch, this layer is responsible of maintining compatibility between **devices** in the *physical* layer and the **services** available in the *service* layer by ensuring that information and requests are properly assembled and routed accross the system even if the underlying APIs are updated. Finally, the *service* layer exposes interfaces to functions which persist data and deliver notifications in the form of RESTful services.


## References
  [1] Jairo Ariza, Camilo Mendoza, Kelly Garcés, and Nicolás Cardozo. "A Research Agenda for IoT Adaptive Architectures". In: *SEAMS’18, May 2018, Gothenburg, Sweden*.

